Rick James Frankos
November 11, 2015

Title of Project: “The Tomb of Horrors” by Gary Gygax (Adapted to HyperCard by Rick Frankos)
Location: The project can be found on the Mac IIci in the 668k folder. My name is the title.


Objective
My objective for this assignment was to adapt the adventure (often called a dungeon delve) “The Tomb of Horrors” by Gary Gygax into a HyperCard adventure that could be navigated easily by the dungeon master (DM). Although it would have been nice to completely transcribe the entire adventure, including maps, illustrations, and charts/tables (monster stats and item stats, for example), I don’t think this part of the adventure would adapt itself well for HyperCard, nor do I think it would fit the two-week scope of the assignment to recreate these materials. Instead, I only focused on writing the branching network of possible actions that players may take, ignoring the minutiae of gameplay mechanics. 


Work Habits
I only visit campus on Monday and Tuesday (I live 75 miles away), so my time to use the computer is limited. I started by giving myself a crash-course in HyperCard at home. I found a manual online, as well as some online tutorials. However, while reading these materials, I did not actually have a computer on which to practice. 

The following Monday (Nov. 1), I got my first hands-on practice at using HyperCard. I tried to do what I learned in the book, and after 3 hours of trial and error I eventually learned how to construct a card and build functioning buttons. That was all I could fit into my first day. The computer was in-use on the following day (Nov. 2).

The last week of class, I was able to come in for 3 hours on Monday (Nov. 9). This was the first day I started my project. It took some getting used to, but eventually using HyperCard became second nature. It wasn’t hard to use, just time-consuming. The next day (Nov. 10) I spent about 8 hours (I took an hour off for the Digital Dialogue) writing the adventure. I gave myself enough time to check my work, and I think it all flows correctly. 


Problems Encountered
My document is very plain looking. I know that HyperCard is capable of much more than what I learned to do, but I did not have enough time to learn it. 

I think the problem that was most irritating to me was that I could not figure out how to create a text window that the user can scroll down (maybe this is impossible?). I was forced to make slides for longer bricks of text, which was not difficult to format, but it seems inconvenient to read.

The biggest problem I had was that I did not have time to adapt the whole adventure to HyperCard by myself. I sent out a group email to everyone in class extending an open invitation to join the project, but only one person responded (to say he wasn’t interested… ForeverAlone.jpg). So I went ahead with the project by myself, and I must say that I am surprised I got so much work done. The HyperText may seem odd to read because there are apparent jumps in room #’s (I was forced to exscind some rooms due to time constraints). Nevertheless, the text flows logically otherwise, and as-written, the adventure is certainly playable. I am proud of how much work I did on this, and I am equally proud that I seemed to produce a bug-free text on my first try. It’s a shame HyperCard is no longer popular—I think I could have been good at it. 
